---
title: I'm a Time Traveler
tags: [musings]
---
When I was a kid, I used to think that the extra day gained during a Leap Year was from changing the time back and forth each year. All this mucking about with time somehow compounded into an extra day every few years. Even then it made me uneasy that we took such a lax attitude towards this yearly flip-flop.

I still don't like setting the clocks back in the fall. A few years ago I tried to protest by maintaining the same relative schedule. But it didn't last long because I don't have enough discipline. It was too hard to go to bed when the clock said it was an hour earlier.

I've never met someone who thought our time changing was a good idea and made their life easier. Much like the anachronistic QWERTY keyboard layout, it's an archaic system that we maintain out of habit and tradition, not because it benefits us in any way. It's no longer relevant to how we currently live (assuming it ever was).

Our yearly time change might have looked good on paper, but it doesn't account for actual human behavior and our need to maintain a consistent biorhythmic cycle. We can't all just switch our internal robot clocks to a different time. We need regularity and consistency.

Moreover, if a large part of the population mopes through an off week because of the time change, that compounds to a huge amount of disorder that we're basically sanctioning into our calendar year. It's scary to imagine how many sleep-deprived people are driving around and there are statistics that show an increase in traffic accidents during the week following a time change. It's institutionalized chaos.

It's hard to adjust to 5pm sunsets. It signifies having to winterize myself and hunker down for the coming cold dark rainy months. I don't like having to become "Winter Andrew", who's always irritable and depressed. It's like having to put on cold wet clothes. You unpack your winter clothes and find that they're ugly, restrictive, and smell like moth balls. But you have to force yourself into them and try to maintain yourself as this other person. After a while you forget who you really are and accept your winter self. It's only until the spring comes that you catch a glimpse of freedom and realize how constrained you've been.

It's a good thing I'm not a pessimist or I'd be in pretty bad shape right now. Thanks a lot Ben Franklin.